anytime we just talk about it because it's you've
got
well let me go get that tape I didn't realize that
okay Charles Schultz or Dave Chapman one thing you
mentioned there about practice there is a effort
at least to say that every veterinarian
practice because
I was defining practice as being in the business
that's
a good point that will help me relieve some of the
tensions I see between the two areas so we're all
the same pot there and all seeking to do the same
thing and that is the end result is a service to the
that they can't do them so we get you are you a Texan
when
did he get
into that
in
the 20s or 30s is that
right
reason I asked I have an uncle in Louisiana but he
was in the purebred it was partly even in the 40s or
so 30s I guess when he got into it it was a novel kind
of
thing
he never would wonder if he had that you know we had
an expression in Louisiana gone to Texas it meant
something
anyway
did pretty well
but he came to Texas and Benton
County and he went to
work decided he wanted
to go through
it
and the
next step was he bought
the land
having
grown up there in e rod county Sandy Land
you remember
what what
year was that 1935
from there in there I worked in the Alamo I was in
with
some guys that were 30
years old, and I was 17 years old, right off the farm
green.
Those guys had been working, and they knew how to
play off and hide from the phone, you know, all that
stuff. They treated me like I was their son, I
guess, you know, they were giving me the shirt off
their back, but they were vile, and they were
vulgar, and their language was terrible. Always
kidding with me, you know, and sending me over to
get something, which didn't, didn't help.
Well, there's got to
be something
better.
I had to have a job where I couldn't
go, so I got a job swooping
sidewalks
at the
gate. And that night, I thought,
well, you know, back home, and then I went to the oil
fence there. Well, when I came home, back home that
time, then, it was in the farm, you borrowed $25,
that $25, and I went to the park, and then we had the
new $25 is
what I had to pay for it. I had to have it pay down, and
I could pay the rest of it for a period of time. So, I
had to have a job again. A guy came along that was,
I guess you'd call it the garbage, picking up
garbage, and out of it. So, he gave me a job, and
that's what I did, was go around and pick up that
garbage.
That way, I was able to make enough to make it
through Tarleton. Finished Tarleton in a couple
of years. It was a junior college then, and then I
went and paid all my debts there, but I didn't have
enough
money.
the wind. He dropped it, stopped at the East Gate
over there, and I got off with my luggage, and I
started walking up a little big old pillar. An old
country boy like me can't do this. get your ride
back home. I can't do that.
I said, you eat a little, and I'll give you a ride
back home. Then,
I said to myself, you idiot. You're just an idiot.
Just a plain idiot. So, I turned around and went on
back up there. Well, fortunately, at Tarleton,
there was a- I guess he is really the source. The
source of the- Because usually, it was a big
success that you stayed up all night. For now,
you
should
be able
to
eat
with everyone
else. Everyone else, everybody gets their food.
You just get your food, and you're good.
Definitely. is someone like that i was going to ask
you if you've been a county agent or a vocational ag
teacher or what
but it
was this guy yeah
he knew
dr
cn shepards he and verne
scott had very science so the
second second dean uh marcelo marcelo marcelo
yeah marcelo yeah me too i went blank marcelo it's
getting a little late
in the summer and i oh dairy
science
major i want to
study
veterinary medicine but without a job well maybe i
better go the other way at least i'll be in college
so i went over i told him i'll take it and so he did and
had every intention of this degree
and trying to save enough money to come back to it
so see what what kind of job opportunities whether
they're then for bs and animal science pretty good
in the 40s yeah i think so uh i've got a job in dairy
science
however that's
all
right
lockhart texas rock and dairy farm we have 600
cows in a way i went down there
and
didn't get back in that three-year span that i had
intended but in the meantime four years there and
in the meantime had married and by the time i got
back to the states i'd saved enough money to
so in 1946 then i came back to study but i graduated
in 1949 and you're also in gi bill yeah yeah that's
right did you have no running a guy named ray hargis
while you were a student yeah sure raised my cousin
is that right yeah he'd been shot down in germany 41
or 42 spent three years yeah you came back over here
you bet that's interesting so uh so you came back in
46 and then finished your degree in 49. i came back
in uh
was the uh the demand for was it tough to get into the
school at that time do you remember in terms of
numbers or yeah
that's all right i was wondering because it's so
competitive now i think i think it's a
salient
ethnicity that sounds about a lot i seem like i've
seen that number that kind of number as well at that
time what what did most of the students the
veterinary students anticipate going into upon
graduation in the private clinical practice in
the country rural settings cattle business every
large animal okay
because i'm going to follow
that i'll figure it out and be thought
so i i guess it was that really so so
when
you got your degree what happened to you then you
didn't go in private practicing no i'm the
other side
of it yeah
anyway there's a little pretty
good dairy well i had dairy science yes degree
going to
little
places like that you couldn't you had to be
somewhat of a generalist yeah nobody else there to
concentrate on yeah well long and when
i came back here
the
job is an instructor in their physiology with
their physiology so i had had i've had army
experience and the
soldiers and then the experience there in the
department and then i was about to graduate with
the team dr john miller who was head of the
department at
the minimum day he just started the biology lab
with to my side and said the prior said yeah
we're going to clifton
texas and practice said well why don't you think
about it and that's all he said oh he asked me again
he
came back
the third
time and i thought well in the wrong maybe it was
telling me something and uh finally he said on that
third time he said i've got a job for you i
said
well i mean i need to think about it and i told my wife
about it and i'll be back then i thought about it and
thought well you know i'm gonna do it for you and
then i can still go to clifton texas for the market
so i came back and told him okay and uh he said well
that's that's fine then you got the job i said so
graduated and some was out and
that i'm adamant with it says we're going to teach
this
an old one sessions what was the book yeah yeah i
remember that title i i that's why i was asking
s-i-s-s-o-n it's sisson and grossman i remember
some of those old titles
that's something else i kind of like to ask you
about is the textbook and teaching side of it
sometimes well he handed me that book all
the instructions i had
and
obviously
you enjoyed it what would have been the uh what was
your salary starting salary do you remember my
starting salary
now how what would have been your comparable what
would have been the situation had you gone into
practice in clifton well of course clifton uh no
longer is a dairy store so something else would
have had to happen yeah but what kind of uh income or
living would you have made had you gone into
practice in clifton at that time i'd had to starve
for about three years yeah that was a pretty
standard procedure when it'd be tough to get into
business now when when a practitioner like that
went out into business on their own basically you
hang a shingle up in your your own your own is it a
matter of public relations a matter of something
being available what what makes it work or not work
people have to want
to come to you
sometimes
you've got to do some things that you
went out into practice then and now i guess this is a
broad thing i've been kind of interested in was
there or is there any business training for that
veterinary
main
thing that i've heard
yeah i'm wondering about that because you know
just in the tvma meeting the other day
i mean i know they're technicians too they're
doctors but they're running businesses and those
businesses some of them apparently were big
operations i know i was talking to you know names to
pinky uh in el paso i'm sorry but anyway yeah i'm
hoping and i gathered he's not operating as a
businessman you're
running the business so that was just one aspect of
the technology
in there
you know just not enough to make a businessman of
course medical doctors have the same situation
yeah that's correct now they will learn it yeah the
hard way if you give them the business without the
technology they can't learn and
then
they will learn on their own yeah yeah the business
it'll finally
when they go out of here in 1949 so did you have any
idea what kind of charges you should make for
services and anything like that yeah we talked
about you had something a little bit and we also had
the practitioners
on the other hand even then and i guess
even more after
that you go out there and make a blunder in
his practice already rooted and you'll come back
to him so you you learn from him stakes at his
expense rather than your own will you say that
apprenticeship is is more common now than it was
do most of your students now going out of here
actually go into some sort of apprenticeship
situation i guess nothing else having the capital
to go into business so
i know a lot of our analog years have known a lot many
of them
get into veterinary medicine because they like
animals yeah one of the things you're telling me is
that maybe the most important thing is that they
they like people if they don't like people they
better not be people yeah i'm sure you scream or in
the you know the interview process that you go
through do you try i mean for their own good i will
assume has that always happened did that happen in
1949 well i don't know in 1949 and i wasn't on the
admission yeah
i don't know we've tried through the years
it's hard to it's hard to better and it's
subjective as it can be but yeah they make an effort
to that's a good question how would you describe a
profile of a a typical veterinarian or a student or
someone that you think should be in that kind of
business? Do you have an image of a veterinarian?
An image of what a veterinarian ought to be? What is
that? My image may be false, may be false. Number
one, he's got to be
skilled.
Visual capability, perceiving what that was. A
skill, that's a lesson.
Today we have,
but we are losers.
So it's more technology-oriented than... Well,
we didn't have the technology. So we had to do it.
Intuition
to, say, a traumatic
prayer
card.
Well, sure enough, she did. Certain
signs that he had seen so many times. He knew what
they were. He didn't have to... Now, that is skill,
but it's also art.
Literally, that's what's happening. And
inflammation
and infection.
It was traumatic. So they need...
A veterinarian is someone who is technically
skilled and accurate. Yeah. This day and time, he
has to have the tech. Non-invasive
tech.
You can see what's inside without invading the
body. You can
see
what's in there. I'm not
saying that's
wrong. So he got to have the technology this day and
time.
Well, I just love animals. So that is an
innate part of veterinary medicine. It is an
infection, let's say, Brian. Oh, yeah. On the
other hand, we can't overlook
working for a client. And
you've got to face those two off.
There are times when you can't do what you wanted.
And
you know that you could make that animal
do what you really wanted to do. But you can't
afford to do it because it would cost more than that
animal is worth.
And insurance covers it or something. On that same
line, I don't know if this is the right place to go.
We need to get back to the profile of a
veterinarian. But as I see it, too, one of the
difficulties in promoting or advancing the
practice of veterinary medicine has been the
problem of cost. And so, for example, in fact, I was
raised with the idea that animals are basically
expendable, that you don't spend money on them. I
never spent a nickel on a pet. They were always
free, and if they died, tough. You don't do that. I
spend a lot. That's an old agrarian philosophy,
though. That's right. I have dogs now. Yeah. And so
forth. Yeah. And your high-priced equipment
you're talking about is expensive stuff.
Absolutely. So has part of the problem of
veterinary medicine, you think, been convincing
people that they need to invest in their animals?
I'm not sure if I'm asking that question
correctly. That somehow or other, in other words,
you can prove the efficiencies, the cost
efficiencies of taking care of animals. Is that
part of the message that veterinarians have had to
get across in this opportunity? Well, you know,
all that
in there,
and you've got to
weasel that out of the
people
of
your clients. Your dog can't
take it, and that's where they're
going
somewhere else. And that's the way you build your
business. Has that changed over the years?
...were a
means of production. There wasn't necessarily
a...
But as people move to the city, as they have pets for
whatever reasons, there's a completely
different...
Because she's got one set of values. There
are great extremes in this animal rights tactic.
And
then there are those who... We need to be as
human...
Humanitarian
as we can
possibly
be.
And if
you do that,
you satisfy the... And some of the others over on
this other side say, well, that's stupid. You're
just...
Veterinarians
ought to be standing for humani... Humanitarian,
I guess. Humanitarian.
Under their control, or...
So, we need to do everything that we can to give that
animal... Money comes into
the picture. No question about that. But
sometimes you can't. Don't pay the bill. Well, if
you don't... Your business is going to fail. And
you've got to... But
humanitarianism is a very essential part. If you
dislike animals, you ought not be there. There's
an extreme
that the...
Humanitarian...
It would slide.